# Lecture 6

## Layering

- Common Design principle used across computer systems
- Layering is the **name we give to the organization of the system into seperate functional components**
    - Layers are hireachial and communicated sequentially
    - Seperation of Concerns
    - Each layer only have interfaces to directly one layer above or below of its own
    - Each layer provides a well defined service to layer above using the services provided by the layers below and **its own private processing**
    - Each layer can be improved with worring about the other layers and can be upgraded/improved or removed without worring about the other layers.
    - For example, when booking a ticket brokerage sites provide layer by consolidating the flight ticket, status & price etc., from different airlines in single window
    - We can also go one layer below by visiting the airlines we page where we book the ticket. Here absraction is provided by airline by just giving us the routes, time & price.
    - Airlines have another layer where they fly different airplanes over different routes with different timings etc.,
    - This kind of hierarchial layering allows layers to focus on doing its job well and providing well defined service to the layer above.
- **Layering in Computer Systems**
    - Layering is done in many systems including programming languages such as JAVA, Python
    - We write code that the complier understands and complier takes care of converting the code to object code. It also takes care of lexical analysis, parsing, preprocessing declarations and then code generation
    - Linker takes the object code from complier and links its with libraries and generates an executable.
    - The CPU then takes the executable to run the code.
    - Sometimes, we need to break the layering to add some special code that only can be done in lower level code.
    - This has huge disadvantage as we now to write different types of code for each layer above it.
    - We must really break the layering when there is no other option to do so.
- **Reasons for Layering**
    1. Modularity
    2. Well Defined service
    3. Reuse
    4. Seperation of Concerns
    5. Continuous Improvement
    6. Peer to Peer Communication